>> Mike North: We're going to go through
the solution to the last exercise,
whereby we implement this task function
that will treat the contents of
a generator function in such a way
that we have something that looks looks
almost exactly like async and await.
So we can run npm start autocomplete-4.
And we've got our task function here.
Before we actually start this exercise up,
I recommend that when we kick this
last one off, that we try a couple of
smaller examples that would give us signs
we're on the right track before we went
for the full blown async and await.
The first step I'm going to go
through here is an effort to
show that promises are being chained
in sequence together instead
of sent off in parallel, as they would
were we just writing synchronous code.
And if you have a couple of fetches
that aren't chained together,
those will just all go off, and
they'll come back whenever they come back.
An easy way to do that is to
have something like this,
where we have await for
600 milliseconds, and
then await shortly thereafter with 300
milliseconds.
>> Mike North: Something
like this.
>> Mike North: So
effectively what we expect to see is,
if we were to do these in serial,
right, chain them together,
we'll see the 600 finish first,
and then the 300 will happen after it.
If we were to run them, start them
both off at nearly the same time,
because the 300 is gonna wait for
a shorter period of time it will
be the one that finishes first.
So this gives us our first sign that
we're chaining things together.
Now, we're not worried about passing
anything into the iterator at this
point in time.
We will tackle that as the next step.
We'll worry about the values of
these promises is in the next step.
We're just worried about
sequential order and
that we're assembling
this chain correctly.
So first,
we're gonna implement our solution here.
And let me see if I can
make this even clearer.
Wonderful, so what we're gonna do is,
we've got this iterator, and
the easiest way to do this,
we could do a looping approach, or
we could do a recursive approach.
The benefit of recursion is I can
use things like return to control,
an early termination of a particular
branch of code as opposed to
having to worry about a lot of
very controlled branching and
use of something like the continue
statement inside a loop.
So I'm gonna opt for recursion here.
So I'm just gonna have a function
here called nextStep().
We'll just call it that.
And this basically indicates an attempt
to grab something off of the iterator and
deal with that.
And we'll begin, so we'll define it,
and then we'll basically invoke it for
the first time.
And so let's make sure that we
can get that first function out,
the first promise out, sorry.
And let me rename this
to just iterate it for
ease of typing and ease of reading.
So, we'll say, p = it.next().
Or actually, let's say,
we call this an iterator item.
>> Mike North: And
so, we need to worry about two things.
Number one, this has a value.
This has a value and it has an indication
of whether it's done or not.
So if it's done we'll return.
And let me just log
something out in the time
being.
>> Mike North: And
we can rename this actually, itResult.
Just to align with the type.
>> Mike North: Okay,
and this point next step is done.
So basically if we pull something off and
we indicate that we have overshot and
let's pretend, for now we're just dealing
with yields, we did see that when we
used return in a generator function,
done and a value came and the same object.
In this case we know that,
when done is true that's
an indication that we've already
dealt with our last value,
so this ensures that say if we
have an iterator of size 0 right?
There's no items in here,
we're done immediately.
We're not going to infinitely recourse, so
this is sort of our
stopping condition here.
In this block of code we know
that we're not done yet.
So we have a value.
>> Mike North: So, there is our value.
And I'm not gonna actually,
sorry, changing my mind here.
I'm not going to presume
that it's a promise.
I've got an,
izPromise function up here,
that should be useful.
>> Mike North: Great, so
the value is not a promise.
We're not gonna worry about it for
the time being.
>> Mike North: If the value is a promise.
>> Mike North: We're gonna say value.then.
There's my promise result.
And we're gonna then call nextStep.
>> Mike North: We actually are not
even gonna worry about this for now.
We don't need to worry
about what it resolves to.
So let's see how this works.
>> Mike North: Okay,
so here's what's happening.
First off, we did see that the 300 did
not beat the 600 to the finish line.
This indicates that we're chaining
things together in a sequence.
So the first thing that
was yielded is a promise.
The second thing that was
yielded is also a promise, and
then finally we hit this done branch.
So this is our first thing
that we want to see.
That we've got this sequential chain
of things working for us here.
So then the next thing we wanna
worry about is a value, right?
So for this, I'm gonna deal with fetch.
Fetch gives us a nice,
if you've ever worked with this, gives us
a sort of two step asynchronous process of
getting from a URL to get some
JSON to the actual JSON itself.
So that's great, cuz it's two steps and
this will help me ensure that I
can do one and then the other.
But this is a nice value base thing
that will help me experiment with
that.
>> Mike North: And
I'm actually gonna borrow.
Sorry, I'm jumping around here.
>> Mike North: Okay, so,
I gotta start my app up here,
but I'm gonna use this
Google Places API.
>> Mike North: As a means for
testing this app, so
just making sure this URL works.
And in fact it does, so this is
the same thing that we've been using.
But I'm just going to
paste that URL in here.
We're proxying it through
local host currently and
that should give a result and
that should give us some json.
>> Mike North: Alright,
so now it's time for
us to deal with this data part of things.
Now let's see what our existing code,
how it handles that.
Okay, so fetch is not defined,
interesting.
>> Mike North: Because I'm running it in
node.
Okay, no worries, we can do it
some other way.
>> Mike North: No
problem.
>> Mike North: So
you could've added node fetch here,
I'm just gonna create a new
thing here like function,
valuesoon and then return new promise.
Or we can even do this, wait,
I can just use wait in fact.
Wait for
500 milliseconds then return first,
so that should be first.
>> Mike North: If we see that,
we know we've captured it effectively.
And this we'll just do a second wait for
exactly the same amount.
This will be second-
>> Speaker 2: You
have to yield those [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Yes we do,
thank you.
>> Mike North: Great,
okay, everyone agreed that
this will give me some
indication that I am effectively
completing that assignment operation.
This will make it start to look
a lot more like it's syncing
away.
>> Mike North: I
disagree.
>> Mike North: Okay, so
first undefined, second undefined,
we're not seeing what we want yet.
All we have to do here is
deal with this promiseResult.
And we know that ultimately, we want when
we call this iterator here, we want to
push the value in of the previous
promise as we pull the next promise out.
Think of it that way,
it's almost like a trade.
I will give you what just resolved and
then you chew on that.
Run your code then give me back the next
promise once you hit a yield, so
think of it that way.
I push something into next and then that's
almost like a function and location.
But it's just gonna run and
tumble into the next yield and
what I get out is the next
promised to wait for, right?
So, I have to put a value in here..
>> Mike North: LastPromiseVal and
ultimately that has to come
into this function and
the good news is we can pass
it in like that, right.
PromiseResult is implicitly of any type.
So, here's where type script it
does a little bit of a better job
than we're able to do right now without
going nuts with the type definitions.
I don't have any particular
knowledge of the types that
these different types that these
different promises resolve to.
You could use generics and constraints,
I'm sure there's a way to do it.
In fact a wait operating the way it does
is probably proof there's a way to do it.
That is like type definition back
flips that I'm not prepared to do for
us right now.
So for the time being, we're gonna say
it's okay for this to be in any type.
All we really want to worry about in
terms of the type is the last value,
it's the last value
>> Mike North: So
now if you run this in this,
we're gonna pass in
undefined.
>> Mike North: The reason we do that,
think of that as like that's
the first time we kick things off.
So it's a little bit of an edge case, but
it's the first time we pull this iterator.
We're not completing
an assignment operation.
We're not paused immediately on
the right hand side of an equal sign and
providing a value to complete
that assignment operation.
This is just the first time.
>> Mike North: And
it's okay to pass that in.
>> Mike North: Looking good,
so we've got first first, second second.
We're recognizing that there are promise.
I'm actually going to handle this here,
so that in theory,
let's say we were using this.
We wanted to gather these items and
sequence for some reason.
We wanted to yield a synchronous value.
We can handle that, we can make it so
if you accidentally yield something and
it's there.
We'll just yield the value right away,
it's not problem.
Oops, sorry, it popped up tot he top.
Yielding the value right away
as opposed to waiting for
the promise to resolve like we have
nothing to wait for in this case.
So if you just yield six,
that's totally fine.
So if we did something like this-
>> Mike North: This
should not throw us for a loop.
Now, I didn't ask you to do this, but
this is just a good complete solution.
>> Mike North: Well,
I should really pass in\g third and
we should see that values basically
pass straight through yield.
Let the sticks\g pass through.
In any case,
looking pretty good in this situation.
So let's remove our console logs and
run our
generator function here,
we left out one thing here.
Ultimately, we want this to resolve
with the last thing that was yielded, so
let's do that.
LastVal and we're gonna say, console.log,
lastVal, we'll just say
that's what we ended up with.
So essentially,
the use case here is in an async function.
You're gonna return
something at the end or
you're gonna yield one final value and
that's what you're interested in.
That's sort of what you
were building up to.
It's the same way that ultimately
our arrays\g and functions work.
And in this case we're currently
gonna return undefined.
Should be undefined.
>> Mike North: It never even resolves,
interesting.
So there's our resolve,
we've never invoked it here yet.
So now, it's our job here,
instead of just saying return,
we have to resolve the function.
>> Mike North: But
we're not passing anything in.
So I'm not gonna bother running it
again in to show you that like we need
something here.
What we can do is something like this.
We can outside the disclosure say let
value-
>> Mike North: And
then in here-
>> Mike North: So
basically by the time we invoke this
again we will still be holding on to
the previous value that was
most recently admitted.
Is that make sense that
what the change does?
I pulled it outside in to the outer scope,
so
that when we turn around,
when we come back through and
execute this function one more time,
value will still be there waiting for us.
This is one of the benefits of
dealing with the generator function.
Our execution context is preserved.
>> Mike North: So this has an implicit any
type, we really want this
to have a value of type.
So we don't have the type
safety we're looking for.
>> Mike North: We'll just do it like this?
>> Mike North: That's coming implicitly.
>> Mike North: It wants a st.
>> Mike North: There we
go.
>> Mike North: Some ugly stuff going on
here, and again, the goal here is
not to use this piece of code, but
to prove that generator functions
lead up to async and await.
When we run this,
we should see that the most recent thing,
which should be third, that is in fact
what is omitted from this giant promise.
So effectively,
we've been able to say, here's some
asynchronous steps we can go through.
And then at the end, like, we can
return this last thing and it works.
The last thing we wanna check is this
case.
>> Mike North: I
wanna make sure I got third out.
All right,
I wanna be able to return as well.
Let's see what happens.
We're just seeing that
because of an add-on book.
So I think I may get second, and I do.
So the reason is we basically
handle the done case first.
We handle the done case first.
So what I can do is say, if we're done and
yes.
>> Mike North: And
the value is-
>> Mike North: Undefined.
So basically, we're taking advantage of
the fact that subsequent pulls on this
iterator will give me
done undefined again.
So we're saying like, look I'm willing
to tolerate done and term one more time.
Or at least until you give me
that undefined value there.
This would also save us in the situation
where we yield undefined but
we're not done yet.
So we do need both of these
conditions here, right?
Not that I can explain why you've
wanna do that but-
>> Mike North: Now,
we handle the return case as well.
This makes sense to everyone?
It's a little bit involved,
I definitely took a couple of more
lines than 20 just for clarity sake.
Let me remove this, and
let's drive our code and see how it works.
>> Mike North: And it works exactly as it
did before with async and await.
However, this time,
we've implemented basically the exact same
thing by way of a generator function.
So know that when you're using async and
await and you're in an async function,
you're really under the hood
yielding promises and waiting for
those promises to resolve and then
pulling the next thing in the iterator.
That helps you understand the nature
of this pausing local execution,
and then entering back
into this function here.
So I'm now gonna take this
one step further, and
now that we have our own guts of
this async in a wait apparatus.
I have the ability to fix something
that has been bugging me here,
and that is that if I type, like this,
you see we get a little flash
of the previous results first and
then the next results coming in.
Really, all we need to do here in order to
make this a little bit better is first,
let me state what we're seeing here.
When a key stroke is hit, and
we begin a new search,
we basically send a request out.
And say when this response comes back,
your instructions are,
update the state of this
reactive component.
And it so happens that we're lucky
that this is a consistent API, and
usually the last one that we dispatch
is the last one to come back in.
And so now we're seeing, like,
that this was the last to land, and so
it's what remains on our screen.
We really have no guarantee
that would be always true.
So what we want effectively to do is
when we see that there's something
already in progress and we're about
ready to dispatch another request,
we want to say I'm not interested in any
responses from whatever was just pending.
So let's add that in.
>> Mike North: What we wanna do is
define a new interface here called-
>> Mike North: CancellablePromise.
>> Mike North: And there's a promise like
type which basically if we peek at
the definition of what this it just
says it has a dot then but
that's about it, that's all it has.
It has the right constructor and
dot then, so there is not much to it,
we're just gonna add one
thing to this interface.
>> Mike North: A cancelled property.
And our task functions now going
to return CancellablePromise,
and that means that in our, down here,
when we return this promise
we have to say-
>> Mike North: P.cancelled
= false.
>> Mike North: Or sorry,
we'd have to do something like this,
p as, no,
doesn't like that
>> Mike North: New promise,
we can go down here as-
>> Mike North: All right,
we can do our little two line thing.
>> Mike North: I don't believe we can
just unpack this object.
>> Mike North: Cannot be converted
because cancelled is not there.
Hmm.
How are we going to do this?
>> Mike North: We can do a,
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] Object ...P
canceled to S.
>> Mike North: We could try.
I'm not sure that will work.
...p.
>> Mike North: Is that gonna be?
That might work.
Lets see.
>> Mike North: Wow,
if that works,
then I love the structure aside.
I love that spread even more than before.
Canceled,
>> Mike North: Yeah,
that's not assignable because
it wants to catch, there.
All right, some shenanigans required,
brace yourselves.
>> Mike North: I know
what I can do.
>> Mike North: That might work.
>> Mike North: Yes, so
momentarily it's not gonna have that but
we're gonna say cancellable promise,
canceled equals false.
All right, so the benefit here and
this is actually the better way to do it,
I can do it right up here.
>> Mike North: Perfect.
Okay, so, now this cancelable promise, if
we receive this as a cancelable promise,
we can assume it is a cancelable promise.
We have to kinda push it up stream here,
I'll save this task,
autocomplete that's where were going next.
So the task is gonna return a cancelable
promise and hopefully,
I need to export it from task.
Export the interface.
>> Mike North: So now,
it's gonna say import.
>> Mike North: Okay, and
this returns the correct kind of promise.
What is this complaining about?
It's not a valid function.
>> Mike North: [SOUND] That's fine.
We can just do that.
Make that happy.
So now this returns the cancelled promise,
and then we can go to auto.
We can go to where this is used,
which is our PlaceSearchContainer,
and this is gonna use
our autocomplete here.
Await is still fair game because
anything that returns a promise can
be awaited, right?
Except what this returns is
that cancellable promise.
Why is this still.
>> Mike North: I'm
in the wrong exercise version here.
Sorry.
Four, there we go.
This makes more sense now.
So here,
>> Mike North: Okay.
So now down here we can
do something interesting.
In the event that this thing is called,
let's make sure our app still works first.
>> Mike North: Good, still works.
So in the event that we
call begin search and
there's an existing search underway,
and we can tell because
we set existing search back to
undefined once the problem resolves.
Like if existing search on this
state of this component is defined.
Because we only ever set it to a promise
and we have type safety around it.
We can basically cancel it
as we kick off the next one.
And then once we do that,
now we'll go back to task and
we'll figure out what
to do about that data.
But we're sending in a signal
where basically that promise has
a property on it now,
that we can use to determine whether we
should care about any subsequent results.
So here,
we'll say if this state existing search,
>> Mike North: Just something like that.
We're basically like flipping a bit,
saying, let here be known
that we don't give a damn about what you
have to say from this point on [LAUGH].
All right, last step.
Going back into task.
So now, we turned out the value,
what type is P?
It's a CancellablePromise.
And so in here, when we're deciding
whether or not to go to the next step or
not, we can just simply say,
if, if you're not cancelled.
Go to the next step.
If you are cancelled, we don't care.
The iterator will never get another
thing out of this iterator.
Or this, actually this function just
runs to completion and you're done.
So how this affects?
The way this works.
>> Mike North: You
note that we don't see that subsequent
flashing coming in anymore,
it's only that last result that will ever
have a chance at updating the current
state on this component.
Everything else, we would describe this by
saying we are black holing this promise.
We say black hole because it's
like the signal goes in and
we never hear from it again, right?
We can't truly cancel the fetch.
We can't say it like to the browser,
I no longer care about this data.
But what we can do is say, the handler
that typically would do its job and
continue the sequence of events,
ultimately resulting in like,
sets date being called,
that updating what's on the screen.
At the nearest possible convenience
when you pop up between promises,
just don't go any farther.
It's almost like we went to a yield and
then we just say drop it,
you're done, just drop it.
So that's pretty cool,
that's like enhanced async await.
You could do the same thing
with regular async and await.
You would just have to check in
between promises that you await and
just early return from an async function
in the event that you're canceled, right?
But with generator functions we
can implement it in a generic way
that anything can consume now,
like this cancellable thing that's
built into the task function.
Anyone who uses this,
who passes in the generator function.
That is setup to behave like async and
await.
Will be able to take advantage
of the cancelability feature
with the way we've implemented this.